---
layout: site
title: Sebastian Riedel
---

I'm currently a Lecturer[1] at the "University College London":http://www.ucl.ac.uk.

Whenever we advance our understanding of the world, we write down our findings in publications, patents, webpages or the like. This results in a vast and ever-increasing body of literature, impossible to effectively access and comprehend. The overarching goal of my research is to extract and distill this knowledge. 

To achieve this goal I have been working in several areas of Natural Language Processing and Machine Learning I believe need to be advanced:

* **Efficient Probabilistic Inference**: I designed methods that efficiently find exact MAP states, and approximate marginals, for high tree-width graphical models with millions of variables and factors ("UAI08":http://riedelcastro.github.com/publications/details/riedel08improving.html, "NAACL10a":http://riedelcastro.github.com/publications/details/riedel10relaxed.html, "NAACL09b":http://riedelcastro.github.com/publications/details/riedel09revisiting.html, "UAI10":http://riedelcastro.github.com/publications/details/riedel10inference.html, "EMNLP12":http://riedelcastro.github.com/publications/details/riedel12parse.html).
* **Joint Inference**: I developed language processors in which information can flow up and downwards, reducing the problem of cascading errors ("EMNLP11":http://riedelcastro.github.com/publications/details/riedel11fast.html, "NAACL09a":http://riedelcastro.github.com/publications/details/meza09jointly.html, "ACL09":http://riedelcastro.github.com/publications/details/yoshikawa09jointly.html).
* **Distant supervision**: I trained graphicals models to extract Freebase facts from text, using no textual annotation but only existing Freebase facts as training signal: ("ECML10":http://riedelcastro.github.com/publications/details/riedel10modeling.html, "EMNLP10":http://riedelcastro.github.com/publications/details/yao10collective.html, "NAACL10b":http://riedelcastro.github.com/publications/details/singh10constraint.html).
* **Linguistic Processsors**: I developed syntactic and semantic parsers that can efficiently capture global dependencies within the semantic structure to be extracted ("EMNLP06":http://riedelcastro.github.com/publications/details/riedel06incremental.html, "NAACL09a":http://riedelcastro.github.com/publications/details/meza09jointly.html, "ICASSP08":http://riedelcastro.github.com/publications/details/mezaruiz08accurate.html).

The above research has enabled me develop state-of-the-art systems that consistently rank highest in international competitions on extracting information from biomedical literature: In 2011, and in collaboration with colleagues at Stanford, I developed an event extractor for biomedical text that ranked 1st in three tracks of the "BioNLP 2011 Shared Task":https://sites.google.com/site/bionlpst ("BIONLP11a":http://riedelcastro.github.com/publications/details/riedel11robust.html, "BIONLP11b":http://riedelcastro.github.com/publications/details/riedel11model.html); in 2009 I developed an event extraction system that ranked 1st in the "BioNLP 2009 Shared Task":http://www-tsujii.is.s.u-tokyo.ac.jp/GENIA/SharedTask, Track 2 ("BIONLP09":http://riedelcastro.github.com/publications/details/riedel09markov.html); in 2005 my protein-protein interaction extraction model ranked 1st in the "Learning Language in Logic Task":http://www.cs.york.ac.uk/mlg/lll/lll05/lll05-nedellec.pdf ("LLL05":http://riedelcastro.github.com/publications/details/riedel05genic.html)

I am also very interested in Probabilistic Programming and Statistical Relational Learning. Progress in AI is slowed down by the difficulty of engineering large scale end-to-end systems that reason under uncertainty. Probabilistic Programming frameworks dramatically simplify this task. I have developed "markov thebeast":http://code.google.com/p/thebeast/, a Markov Logic engine used in research institutes around the world. It has helped developers to create state-of-the-art probabilistic models--without the need of a post-graduate degree in Machine Learning. I am also involved in the development of "factorie":http://code.google.com/p/factorie/.

See my "publication":/publications/all.html, "software":/software.html and "scholar":http://scholar.google.com/citations?user=AcCtcrsAAAAJ&hl=en pages for more details.

I am also interested in helping out the "Ishinomaki Children's Refuge Center":http://ishinomakicrc.wordpress.com/. 

fn1. Roughly equivalent to US Assistant Professor.